# Media Psychology

- __Bridging media psychology and cognitive neuroscience__

The historical consensus is that scientific research on media evolved primarily from research in social psychology and sociology in the early 20th century.

In the life sciences, there is no longer a nature/nurture dichotomy - environmental and genetic factors combine in dynamic interactions to produce human behavior, including communication. In psychology, the "cognitive revolution" in the mid 20th century has been trumped by a "decade of the brain" and a "cognitive _neuroscience_ revolution" in the 1990s which gave rise to numerous new journals and academic societies. Subsequently, neuropsychological research has rapidly expanded into almost all areas of modern psychology.

In media psychology, biologically grounded explanations for media effects date back more than 20 years, and the field has seen a recent increase in research activity with a neuropsychological focus as well as revised theories that align the discipline with the paradigm shifts outlined above. Yet tangible attempts that bridge media psychology and cognitive neuroscience are still rare, and the acceptance of integrative media studies among media psychologists remains at a comparatively low level. Why? Two reasons stand out: skepticism about the explanatory potential of neuroscientific data, and a lack of training in neurosientific theory and methodology leading to uncertainties about what research questions can and cannot be tackled in a meaningful way.

This article aims to provide readers with a flavor of the type of questions in media psychology that have been addressed with a neuroscientific framework. Another selection of research topics that represent good candidates for a cognitive neuroscience perspective can be found in Falk (2012) #TODO This article also focuses on direct studies of the human brain, so it ignores a vast body of research in media psychology using EEG, skin conductance, facial electromyography and endocrinological measures; those can found in Lang (1994), Potter and Bolls (2012) and Ravaja (2004).

General questions that are valid in media neuroscience studies can be broken down into three categories: _localization_, _selectivity_ and _generalization_.

The first category deals with _localizing_ the neural structures involved in a specific cognitive construct or process. Localization studies are a necessary precursor for theory testing, particularly for media neuroscience. Early neuroscientific studies using fMRI extensively investigated the neural correlates of psychological processes such as attention, perception, memory, language and so on. These studies provide an important foundation, although constructs that are specific to media psychological processes may still require mapping.

_Selectivity_ questions investigate the neural structures recruited by different cognitive processes and deal with issues of dissociation.

_Generalizability_ questions examine the extent to which the same mental process is involved in a variety of communication tasks. Cognitive neuroscience has demonstrated that the same neural structures are engaged when experiencing pain or when observing others experiencing pain, or experiencing aggression in a nonvirtual and virtual world. Given that audiences can feel a strong sense of attachment with mediated characters, especially in videogames, these findings have implications for the experience and effects of video game exposure.

It's important to be wary of results suggesting that a single brain structure is responsible for a given communication process, since few neural structures are so selective, and the ones that are tend to be selective for a specific and narrowly constrained cognitive process (like face recognition). Communication processes are dynamic and generally theorized to recruit a number of cognitive subprocesses (attention, memory, reward, emotion...), and thus most if not all investigations into the neural substrates of media psychological phenomena must conceptualize the brain as a dynamic system that simultaneously engages multiple neural structures.

One prominent misinterpretation among media psychologists is the __reverse inference problem__, which refers to making inferences about a stimulus engaging a particular, well-known cognitive process based on the fact that that stimulus activated a region that has been associated with that process, when that activation could have been caused by other cognitive processes. This can be ameliorated through selectivity studies, and by using neuroimaging in conjunction eith other measures to triangulate relevant cognitive processes.

_Interpersonal and intergroup processes_: Reeves and Nass (1996) demonstrated that humans often respond to electronically mediated information the same way they respond to face-to-face information; this occurs because the evolved capacities of the human brain are not adapted to an environment that includes modern media technologies. Thus, a neurophysiological account of interpersonal and intergroup processes (person perception, empathy, stereotypes, social comparison, real-time social interaction...) is of interest to media psychologists. In some areas, results in biological processes are validating existing theoretical and empirical work from media psychologists. Findings in social cognitive neuroscience can help reframe or refocus existing debates.

Person perception and empathic responses: One of the largest areas of overlap in terms of existing research in social cognitive neuroscience and media psychology is in understanding how we think about and discern the intentions of others, and the role of empathy and social emotions in dictating future behavior. Research suggests there are dissociable and identifiable neural networks involved in person perception: the "mirror system", involved when observing and executing biological motion, and the "mentalizing system", which is primarily involved when there's no observation of motion, such as when reading about actions taking place or thinking about the intentions of others in theory of mind tasks. Media psychological explorations into how viewers form dispositions toward characters and infer intentionality and culpability from character behavior can benefit from taking into account the differences between mirroring and mentalizing networks. With that said, there is considerable controversy surrounding mirror neurons, system and related theories of motor simulation and embodied cognition, so we gotta be careful when exploring this topic.

Stereotypes and social comparison: An important aspect of person-perception judgements is the role of stereotypes activation and social comparison. Recent imaging work has distinguished stereotypes from other types of social or semantic information and suggests they are specifically linked to the person-perception and social cognition networks. For example, when examining neural responses to low-status groups, there is a significant failure of activation in the medial prefrontal cortex, suggesting that these groups are perceived as "less than human agents". Both individualization of members of these outgroups and focusing on sociomoral emotional networks in media portrayals can be used to change implicit stereotypes. Also, while stereotypes are linked to higher-order processing, prejudice has been more closely linked to fear and fight-or-flight amygdala responses. This indicates that interventions for stereotyping and prejudice focus on different mechanics.

Social interaction: neural synchrony only appears in face-to-face conversation, implications for computer-mediated communication.

Morality and narratives: Social judgements about the appropiateness of others' behaviors dictate how we feel about characters and how we learn right from wrong from viewing the behaviors of others. Several regions known as the _moral judgement network_ have been noted as being recruited in moral judgement tasks when compared to other types of social information judgements. These areas are not just associated with cognitive decision-making and rationalizing but with moral emotions such as guilt, compassion, pride and shame. Findings from cognitive neuroscience studies support arguments for dual-process models of morality over strictly deliberate moral decision-making. Furthermore, even brief information about morality can shape subsequent judgements of individuals. Brain imaging studies support the idea that we use quick, schematic, dimensional judgements to form initial impressions about characters, yet we also update these impressions as we receive more information. It's been found that when updated sociomoral information is inconsistent with previous impressions, it specifically activates a separate network of cognitive and inferential judgement; thus, it's important to not just asses the type of information being updated, but also whether it's consistent with prior social character judgements.

Persuasion neuroscience and health: one of the most developed areas in media neuroscience has focused on the effects of persuasion. Early research focused on the neural substrate of classically observed effects in persuasion literature, such as brain activation to messages attributed to sources high (vs. low) in expertise; the authors suggest that these pathways modulate listener attention and subsequent valuation and retention of ideas. Interestingly, neural processes underpinning persuasion appear consistent across different media formats and cultures (Falk et all 2009 #TODO). Neural activity can also be used as a predictor variable to forecast later behavioral outcomes (see Falk, Cascio & Coronel, 2015 #TODO). Neural activity within brain regions associated with self-related/self-relevant processing and positive valuation predicted message-consistent behavior change. In particular, several studies seem to support the idea of the medial prefrontal cortex indexing a neural signal of self-relevance.

_New methodological avenues_: theory enables methodological advances, and new methods inspire new theories.

Network science and Big Data: one promising new methodological innovation lies at the intersection of neuroscience and computational social science. Although neuroscience methods typically address mechanisms at the individual level, and so-called big data is often aggregated across many individuals, neuroscience and computational social science can strongly complement one another. Neural methods can help unpack mechanisms that lead to observed behaviors at large scales, and methods from computational social science can help contextualize the environments that individuals inhabit. Early work has demonstrated that neural connectivity between the amygdala and cortical regions covaries with the size of participants' social networks.

Intersubject synchrony and narrative engagement: interpersonal communication aligns brain activity across individuals, but the same process also operates on the level of audiences. Intersubject correlation (ISC) analysis is used in this body of research. Research indicates that different types of narrative content induce different levels of whole-brain ISCs. These ISCs have been interpreted as a measure of audience engagement - the extent to which viewers share a collective experience in response to a mediated narrative. The more narrative in the video, the higher the ISCs. Subsequent studies have treated ISCs as an indicator of the shared cognitive machinery activated by media narratives and, in turn, as a predictor of group-level effects, to the point of predicting ratings and social media mentions of television programs (Dmochowski et all, 2014 #TODO).

Hyperscanning: this allows multiple participants' brains to be imaged simultaneously and has important implications for understanding the relationship between the media and neural synchrony.

The neuroscientific turn in media psychology provides new, materially grounded understandings of historically studied phenomena. This level of scientific inquiry has the potential to revisit previous findings, offer convincing explanations of their mechanisms, and refocus theoretical debates when neuroscientific findings are in conflict with current theorizing. Conversely, neuroscience scholars benefit from an integration of media psychology through the use of a more naturalistic - and thereby complex - stimuli.

## Nuevas tecnologías para la educación en la era digital

- Los colores cálidos acercan la imagn al espectador, mientras que los fríos la alejan. Estas sensaciones pueden reforzarse con la escala tonal: así, la sensación de acercamiento producida por un color cálido se incrementa con la claridad.

- Ls voz, como elemento sonoro, puede llegar a ser más importante que el propio mensaje que se quiere transmitir, ya que para un receptor/oyente puede ser más significativa la forma de decirlo que el mensaje en sí. La forma de decir un mensaje, esa intención que rpetendemos producir, se llama _expresión_.

- Vocalizar y articular: vocalizar es el acto de articular con claridad, precisión y buena modulación de la voz. El ritmo o rapidez con la que se habla puede facilitar o entorpecer la vocalización. Si el ritmo es acelerado, la vocalización se vuelve difusa, mientras que una muy marcada se convierte en cansina y puede provocar ansiedad en el oyente. La rapidez o lentitud regulan también la importancia d lo que se dice: lo que se quiere destacar se pronuncia más lentamente, mientras que lo que se quiere que pase desapercibido se precipita.

- Una cierta dosis de redundancia es no solo necesaria sino imprescindible en mensajes marcados por su fugacidad.

- Principios básicos de redacción en televisión: el espectador tiende a creer en la imagen y desconfiar de la palabra. Por ello, cuando la imagen puede resultar engañosa, el presentador debe reforzar la expresión oral para precisar el significado de los hechos relatados. Para captar la atención del espectador se provoca su participación activa mediante el descubrimiento. Es conveniente evitar la redundancia o reiteración.
